permaculture has three different bits of
thinking the first is an ethic if
there's seven billion people on the
planet and everyone's trying to grab as
much as they can as quick as they can
we're stuffed end of story it's trying
to teach people about environmental
impact there has to be a purpose
other than how much can I have the
second bit of thinking I would call
attitudinal or philosophical if I have a
system I can't just take out I have to
put back in at least as much as I take
now preferably more it's a lot easier to
put more in than you take out if you
take less out in the first place
so in permaculture there's a hierarchy
of thinking how much can I create how
much can i conserve how little do I need
to use and that means that when you do
use things you try and use them to their
highest value the third bit of thinking
is what we call the design principles
and essentially they've come from an
understanding of what makes natural
systems work natural systems have been
around Fazil ian's of years they're
sustainable so what is it that keeps
them going if we use those same
principles in the design of human
systems we might head towards
sustainability
everything must cycle so the waste of
one thing is the food for the next and
in permaculture your aim is how many
times can I cycle and how quickly can I
cycle I produce no waste reuse endlessly
23 years ago that whole area was the car
park for the green fields and I mean
it's now a wooded area in permaculture
you're trying to do things not only for
your own benefit but for the benefit all
of life and here we've got comfrey in
flower and if you look there's hundreds
of bumblebees on here one of the
principles of permaculture is about how
we get beneficial relationships between
things and I mean I've got different
plants planted together so that they
kind of work together we dug the pond
move the play oh I'm going to say six to
50 yards and built a house with it the
wood all came from on-site it's all
incredibly local in summer it's not
cooler inside than it is out and in
winter it's warmer inside than it is
outside so it's a very comfortable space
to live in those walls on the north side
where you don't get the Sun for
insulation they're straw bale walls on
the roofs you've probably noticed there
were low load of plants I can actually
either
eat the roof we'll use it as my
first-aid box here we have a cob oven in
which I bake cakes and flapjacks and
roasted veg and if there's any space
I'll do potato wedges
there's the oven basically the clay
which is with mix with sand and straw
its cob that provides the thermal mass
so that once your oven gets up to
temperature we'll keep it nicely there
and we'll be providing the best homemade
cakes in town
[Music]
you